PayPal Express, Payment flows, Payment APIs (#2882)
spryker/spryker-docs: _includes/pbc/all/install-features/202410.0/install-the-payments-feature.md

* Payment Back Office UI;
* Payment method per store;
* Payment data import.

> w* Payment App express checkout flow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Payment App express checkout flow. 
```

Install the required modules using Composer:

```bash
composer require "spryker-feature/payments:{{page.version}}" "spryker/checkout-rest-api:^3.0.0" "spryker/payment-cart-connector"  --update-with-dependencies
```

{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}
Make sure that the following modules have been installed:

| MODULE                    | EXPECTED DIRECTORY                               |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| PaymentDataImport         | vendor/spryker/payment-data-import               |
| PaymentGui                | vendor/spryker/payment-gui                       |
| PaymentApp                | vendor/spryker/payment-app                       |
| PaymentAppExtension       | vendor/spryker/payment-app-extension             |
| PaymentAppShipment        | vendor/spryker/payment-app-shipment              |
| PaymentAppWidget          | vendor/spryker-shop/payment-app-widget           |

> | PaymentAppWidgetExtension | vendor/spryker-shop/payment-app-widget-extension |

Reviewer: should we add that these modules are `required only for ACP Payments`?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we can this column to the table, but they will be a part of the payment feature.

| PaymentCartConnector      | vendor/spryker/payment-cart-connector            |

{% endinfo_block %}

> ### 2) Set up configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2) Set up Express Checkout payments configuration
```

1. Add the following configuration to your project:

2. Configure the checkout payment step to hide the express checkout payment methods.
Depending on your project needs, you can exclude the payment methods that you do not want to show on the checkout payment step.

> In case you are using the `Payone` app, you can exclude the `payone-paypal-express` payment method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you are using the ACP Payone app, you can exclude the `payone-paypal-express` payment method.
```

**src/Pyz/Yves/CheckoutPage/CheckoutPageConfig.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Yves\CheckoutPage;
use SprykerShop\Yves\CheckoutPage\CheckoutPageConfig as SprykerCheckoutPageConfig;
class CheckoutPageConfig extends SprykerCheckoutPageConfig
{

    /**
     * @return list<string>
     */
    public function getExcludedPaymentMethodKeys(): array
    {
        return [
            'payone-paypal-express',
        ];
    }
}
```

Cart reload, remove item, and update quantity are the default cart operations.
Define the payment methods that you want to exclude from the cart operations.

> In the example below, the `PayPal Express` payment method name that is excluded from the cart operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, the `PayPal Express` payment method name should be excluded from the cart operations.
```
Also the reason of exclusion would be good to see here.

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Yves\PaymentAppWidget;

use Generated\Shared\Transfer\QuoteTransfer;
use SprykerShop\Yves\PaymentAppWidget\PaymentAppWidgetConfig as SprykerPaymentAppWidgetConfig;

class PaymentAppWidgetConfig extends SprykerPaymentAppWidgetConfig
{

    /**
     * @var list<string>
     */
    protected const QUOTE_FIELDS_TO_CLEAN_IN_EXPRESS_CHECKOUT_WORKFLOW = [
        QuoteTransfer::PAYMENT,
        QuoteTransfer::PAYMENTS,
        QuoteTransfer::SHIPMENT,
        QuoteTransfer::BILLING_ADDRESS,
        QuoteTransfer::SHIPPING_ADDRESS,
        QuoteTransfer::PRE_ORDER_PAYMENT_DATA,
    ];
}
```

{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

Make sure that:
* The quote fields you have configured are cleared when customers return to the cart page during the express checkout flow:
  * Add several products to the cart and proceed to the express checkout flow.
  * Use the express checkout widget to place an order shown on the cart page.
  * After the confirmation, you will be redirected to the order confirmation page.
  * Return to the cart page and check that the quote fields you have configured are cleared.

{% endinfo_block %}

> 5. Configure the shipment method for the express checkout payment request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configure the default shipment method for the express checkout payment that will be used in the order and the cost is added to the total price.
```

|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| PaymentDataImport         | vendor/spryker/payment-data-import               | no                             |
| PaymentGui                | vendor/spryker/payment-gui                       | no                             |
| PaymentApp                | vendor/spryker/payment-app                       | yes                            |
| PaymentAppExtension       | vendor/spryker/payment-app-extension             | yes                            |
| PaymentAppShipment        | vendor/spryker/payment-app-shipment              | yes                            |
| PaymentAppWidget          | vendor/spryker-shop/payment-app-widget           | yes                            |
| PaymentAppWidgetExtension | vendor/spryker-shop/payment-app-widget-extension | yes                            |
| PaymentCartConnector      | vendor/spryker/payment-cart-connector            | no                             |

{% endinfo_block %}

### 2) Set up Express Checkout payments configuration

> 1. Add the following configuration to your project:

Reviewer 3: Configuration missing

Add a product bundle to cart and place the order using the express checkout flow.
  Make sure the order is placed successfully.

{% endinfo_block %}

7. When customers start a regular checkout, the quote is cleaned up to let them to restart the checkout process from the beginning. Enable cart cleanup for the regular checkout flow.

**src/Pyz/Zed/PaymentAppShipment/PaymentAppShipmentConfig.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Zed\PaymentAppShipment;

use Generated\Shared\Transfer\QuoteTransfer;
use SprykerShop\Yves\CheckoutPage\Plugin\Router\CheckoutPageRouteProviderPlugin;
use Spryker\Zed\PaymentAppShipment\PaymentAppShipmentConfig as SprykerPaymentAppShipmentConfig;

class PaymentAppShipmentConfig extends SprykerPaymentAppShipmentConfig
{
    /**
     * @return string
     */
    public function getExpressCheckoutStartPageRouteName(): string
    {
        return CheckoutPageRouteProviderPlugin::ROUTE_NAME_CHECKOUT_INDEX;
    }
}
```

{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

1. Add several products to cart and proceed to the express checkout flow.
2. On the summary page, click the **Back to cart** button.
3. To proceed to the regular checkout, click **Checkout**.

>   This opens the address step of the regular checkout.

Reviewer 3: What do I need to verify here?

Author: I think it is fine as the final step of this is that the address page is opened which is bringing the customer into the "regular" checkout process.

{% endinfo_block %}

### 4) Add translations

1. Append glossary according to your configuration:

```csv

> payment_app_widget.validation.quote_is_empty, Quote is empty.,en_US
> payment_app_widget.validation.quote_is_empty, Angebot ist leer.,de_DE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
payment_app_widget.validation.quote_is_empty,Quote is empty.,en_US
payment_app_widget.validation.quote_is_empty,Angebot ist leer.,de_DE
```

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Yves\ShopApplication;

use SprykerShop\Yves\PaymentAppWidget\Widget\ExpressCheckoutPaymentWidget;
use SprykerShop\Yves\ShopApplication\ShopApplicationDependencyProvider as SprykerShopApplicationDependencyProvider;

class ShopApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerShopApplicationDependencyProvider
{
    /**
     * @return list<string>
     */
    protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
    {
        return [
            ExpressCheckoutPaymentWidget::class,
        ];
    }
}
```

2. Enable Javascript and CSS changes:

```bash
console frontend:yves:build
```
{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

Verify that the following widgets have been registered by adding the respective code snippets to a Twig template:

| WIDGET                       | VERIFICATION                                                                        |
|------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ExpressCheckoutPaymentWidget | Make sure that the express checkout payment methods are displayed on the cart page. |

{% endinfo_block %}

3. Customize the address solution according to your needs.

> When the express checkout flow is enabled, the customer address does not always include the salutation field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the express checkout flow is enabled, the customer address does not always include all address fields used in Spryker, for example, the salutation field. 
```

| ShipmentExpressCheckoutPaymentRequestProcessorPlugin | Provides the shipment method for the express checkout payment request.| None          | Spryker\Zed\PaymentAppShipment\Communication\Plugin\PaymentApp |

**src/Pyz/Zed/PaymentApp/PaymentAppDependencyProvider.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Zed\PaymentApp;

use Spryker\Zed\PaymentApp\PaymentAppDependencyProvider as SprykerPaymentAppDependencyProvider;
use Spryker\Zed\PaymentAppShipment\Communication\Plugin\PaymentApp\ShipmentExpressCheckoutPaymentRequestProcessorPlugin;

class PaymentAppDependencyProvider extends SprykerPaymentAppDependencyProvider
{
    /**
     * @return list<\Spryker\Zed\PaymentAppExtension\Dependency\Plugin\ExpressCheckoutPaymentRequestProcessorPluginInterface>
     */
    protected function getExpressCheckoutPaymentRequestProcessorPlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            new ShipmentExpressCheckoutPaymentRequestProcessorPlugin(),
        ];
    }
}
```

{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

Make sure that:
* Enabled the express checkout payment method for the payment app.
  * Depends on the payment app enabled in the project.

>   * Not all payment methods support the express checkout flow.

Author: From what I undersand here is that it's about a verification for the previous steps. But I also think it's not clear.

@abitskil can you check and update it to be more meaningful? I would also add information on how to check and if not working as expected links on how to fix.
